Let's add some filtering to our math table filtering is surprisingly simple.
First of all we need to add the input into which the user can type we at is above the math tables so
not inside of it.
It's not strictly connected to it.
It's a neural input.
Just as you could add it anywhere else on your page.
So you're all at the map for feel to have a nice looking input with a floating label and so on.
And then there are and no real input with math input as a directive.
And that's almost it also set a time to text.
So this is now my full input field.
I want to use now on that input field.
I want to register an event listener that fires whenever we type.
So I will add a key up listener.
And here I will execute to do filter Meffert where I want to forward de-value to user entered I can
access this on the dollar sign even Optik angler gives me this simply and closes the default Dom event
that is emitted.
And there it connects the target and pass on the value.
So that is expected the string the user entered also add a placeholder to the input where they say FELTER.
So this is now my input field.
Next I want to use that so I need to implement the dual filter method in my component.
So in there I will add a new method to filter where I will get the full value which will be a string.
So this is what the user entered I know can filter very very simply by simply accessing the data source
and they're setting the filter property equal to the string I got here.
So to filter value the only thing I want to do is I want to call trim to remove any whitespace and then
to lower case.
The reason for this is dead angular or angular materials data source or a material table will in the
end concatenate all values of zero.
So if we have calories duration and so on next to chavrusa it will put this all into one row and then
search for our filtered string here in that long string it's created by doing it like this it will always
take into account all our rows and we therefore should provide a string which is trimmed and all lowercase
because angular will also put its long string to lowercase so that we have a unique casing for which
we falter.
And then we don't have to worry about casing.
You can override its default filtering mechanism and you can read more about this on the data table
page by clicking on filtering.
There you see there you can cast your own filter predicate function if you want to overwrite this.
Now back to our cupholder though here I don't want to override this and in a lot of cases you don't
want to.
So here let's simply ensure that all files are saved.
And then let's quickly log in here and start a couple of exercises and cancel them as before.
Just that we got some values.
Yes and now we get that the filter inputs we need to work on the positioning but it will work if I enter.
Here you see with full the four crunches awls if I enter a lower case if I enter 0.6 we only see Deadworld
adorations Sirat 6.
If my filter for bird ILEC the bird piece does this how easy that works.
Now let's make sure the positioning is all right and I do that by going back to my component and there
are two H.T. mail file and we simply need to style There's field the input field we positioned above
the material table there.
I will wrap this in a death so let's wrap this and put it into the div
and I will add X lay out your facts lay out a line to be precise and set this to center center
and give his a width of 40 percent.
Now let's have a look at this.
We don't need to add new values for Nabl in order to be able to see this and does this looking ready
got to me
I all should name this placeholder though to see the placeholder.
So now if you go back one more time we should have a nice looking folder field here setting about the
data table.
Also if we increase Dishon with and now we can enter our filter string here and have a data table which
works just like that out of the box.